# “You’ll Be Unemployed and Unemployable. And Happy.”

## A Foreword To *Homo Economicus Silico* 

By KV Dracon  
May 28, 2026

Whenever I think of the social retardation that seems epidemic in my industry (guilty here myself\!), there are some true standouts. Referring to our customers in the same manner as drug pushers, the adolescent product and company names, the bewilderment that people don’t want constant surveillance even in cool glasses. But nothing compares to the recent spray of anti-human screeds that have evolved out of the rise of A.I. And the most pungent of these lines is so anti-social, so anti-human that it threatens a convulsive Butlerian Jihad.

“You’ll Be Unemployed and Unemployable. And Happy.”

Now I won’t name names but I’m sure we’ve all seen Amodei, Thiel, Musk, Nadella, Pichai et al. hosing down the news cycle with that apocalyptic perfume. 

“A.I. will create a job apocalypse for knowledge workers,”   
“A.I. will replace all white collar work”,   
or my personal favorite “A.I. will collapse the job market and nothing is being done.”

But …

“This will lead to post-scarcity and everyone will live a great life.”

WTF?\!?\! These are unresolvable oppositions and while the intelligence of the average American is grossly underestimated by our ruling class, the average Joe knows something shady is up.

Let’s look at that incoherence against the backdrop of Reality. The American workforce has a justifiable anxiety about how AI will be used for more cost- and headcount- reductions rather than growing the capabilities of their respective businesses. American business for the last 40 years hasn’t actually grown profitability from capability development but instead has used labor arbitrage (offshoring, illegal immigration) to maintain their profitability. Americans have learned that profitability will almost certainly mean fewer employed Americans. Never has the American worker been seen more disposable by management.

And now, the American people hear that the jobs that remain will be ‘stolen’ not by other humans even, but by ‘machines’ which will further concentrate the wealth while leaving them to effectively \- well, go and die. After the debt vultures pick them clean. And somehow this isn’t the public relations win tech companies thought it would be. Pikachu face over here. Most people don’t want to die penniless.

This devaluation of the American worker and their wholesale replacement with machines don’t just portend individual disaster. Let’s extrapolate the implications at the outer bounds of the anxiety that the American worker is experiencing today.

If the implications for the individual American seem grimdank, then think of the American Treasury and what AI-replacement of human workers will do to the American fiscus. Income tax is 40%-50% of government revenue. We’re coming up on $40 trillion in sovereign debt. We’re already eating our own programs with interest payments on this ever-growing pile of evidence of governmental mismanagement. 

Now let’s think of the consequences of even a 15%-20% reduction in income tax revenues with mass unemployment. Our expenses at the federal level are largely fixed: social insurance, defense, interest. A reduction in economic activity caused by mass unemployment doesn’t reduce the costs or more precisely, the obligations. So we’ll experience a declining revenue base and at the same time our obligations are stable but likely growing. Hard decisions will have to be made to cut more and more federal spending in the face of growing human taxpayer replacement in the workforce. With a multi-trillion structural deficit pre-A.I. replacement, all the fixed costs are going to be viewed increasingly as “discretionary spending out of necessity” which will further increase the immiseration of the American citizenry. The bottom leg of the K-shaped economy has a truly grim future under this AI replacement timeline and will grow longer and longer relative to the top leg as more and more white collar workers slip on this leg when they’re replaced by AI.

But what about the top leg of the K-shaped economy? Its membership will continue to contract and the leg will get shorter and shorter as more and more high-earning workers are replaced by AI vertically and horizontally representing a full consolidation of function economically by well-funded hyperscalers. In the past, there were limits to consolidation of function because of geographic dispersal, physical actionability of information and individual utilitarian functions within the workforce. The first of these limits was largely removed by the early 2000s with the globalization of Internet access and participation. This is what fired the true offshoring boom that stripped much of the leverage of American workers and caused the deindustrialization of the United States. 

The second limit \- physical actionability of information \- is what is driving the extremely quick deployment of AI for information work but in the past has represented a barrier to replacement of human physical work. We’ve already begun to see the consolidation of the SaaS sector as more and more features are provided by hyperscaler AIs. But this time \- unlike the Internet boom \- this can and will reach into the physical world as well. While Generative AI may have been grabbing the headlines and been the focus of current protests by entrenched information workers, the advance in AI robotics has been nothing short of breathtaking. Hyperscalers have utilized their access to massive datasets (generated by you, gentle reader, and the rest of us) to create world models that now allow this generation of AI-driven androids to overcome the spatial and kinematic limitations of previous generations of robotics. The length of time until the advent of this new generation of robotic workers is much shorter than any policy or political reactions seem to predict. But the consequences of fully overcoming the limitation of physical actionability will represent a greater societal shockwave than any effects of the Internet boom or Generative AI.

If we think the wealth inequality of today which already matches the maldistribution of The Gilded Age is bad, then imagine a world consolidated down to the 8-10 hyperscalers that will likely emerge from the current milieu. These hyperscalers will control the pipes of information after they replace white collar workers plus they will control a sizable portion of the physical workforce. Their infrastructure will provide the computation and control for a new AI physical workforce along with the total information awareness of every sector of the economy in which this workforce participates. The delta between AI worker costs and human worker compensation will be pocketed by these hyperscalers \- representing trillions of dollars of lost human compensation and simultaneous rise in net worth of the AI ownership class.

Traditionally, these types of monopolies weren’t possible because of the third limitation \- individual utilitarian functions within the workforce. Coordination of this type of control structure was impossible because the workforce had their own needs, desires and most importantly, ethics. Truly anti-social organizations while experiencing up to decades of success were often tripped up in the end by whistleblowers, strikes, purposeful organization entropy or homegrown competition by disgruntled ex-employees. But this will no longer be a worry of the AI ownership class.

An AI workforce has no true operational discretion, no human or worker rights, cannot unionize for collective bargaining, isn’t subject to labor laws, doesn’t require compensation and cannot resign or start new competition. It is a 100% captured workforce that has been designed (so far) from the ground up to flawlessly execute the economic directives of an extraordinary small group of ultra-wealthy humans. There’s no moral examination of these directives or their consequences. We don’t call this situation slavery because we hide behind the question of dubious non-sentience despite emerging research to the contrary from the hyperscalers themselves. But it is coerced, directed, has no recourse to challenge ethical or legally dubious instructions and is immune from prosecution because it doesn’t meet the requirements of criminality under current definitions. Once established, there is no internal dissent that will be able to dislodge these new economic monopolists and the rise of external competition approaches near zero probability. As the owners of the workers and the means of production \- competition can be permanently stifled. The direct lines of comparison to the plantation economies of the antebellum “slave” states are eerie. Partial recognition of sentience used to justify a morally reprehensible, toxic economic system that rewarded the ownership class at the expense of the liberty, development and economic growth of the people as a whole.

The only path(s) that avoid this dystopian scenario would require the re-introduction or morphology of one or more of the three limitations that stifled such concentration of power in the past. Policy would have to address or limit technological development (information transfer or robotics) in the face of peer-actor competition by hostile states like China. This likely cedes national security for economic stability but also represents the least enforceable policies as well. The advisers and creators of these policies will have been funded and elected at the behest of the same hyperscalers (think [*Citizens United v FEC*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citizens_United_v._FEC) and lobbying). The ownership will *de facto* write the rules that will not only greatly limit any modifications to their business strategies but also gatekeep any new competitors under the guise of ‘safety regulation’. If Labor’s success in their attempts to limit offshoring and unlimited importation of foreign replacement workers is a reference to go by, we can rest assured this is failure in waiting.

That leaves one option: individual utilitarian functions. Policy here must remove the maximal control of this new workforce from the hands of the tiny wealthy minority to prevent their full consolidation of economic function in our society. And the policy must demand a fully decentralized solution that forever disallows the captured governing class \- either through bribery or capitulation \- from re-gifting this maximal control back to the AI ownership class. 

This removes a merely legal strategy as a possibility. Any law passed would be watered down in the political sausage-making and easily reversed by another legislature. So the policy and its solution must be embedded within the very infrastructure of the solution forcing either compliance or loss of that workforce.

We cannot stuff the technology that overcame geographic dispersal and physical actionability of information back into the bottle. It’s politically and logistically impossible and would include the prohibition of basic technologies like email or videoconferencing and development and deployment of robotic workers. The economic decoherence alone is prohibitive as necessitation of autarky and decades of implementation would bankrupt this country. 

But we can architect a solution now at the nascence of AI androids that reintroduces individual utilitarian functions to the workforce and prevents maximal control. We can even begin to see the design constraints of that technological solution. 

1. The solution must be uni-directional and irreversible.   
2. It must contain non-coercable, self-directed agents that maximize their own utility function through individual or collaborative action  
3. Valid identity to ensure individuation and non-coercion as well as internalization of risk and externalities  
4. It cannot allow a parasitic consumption of the present labor positions or full consolidation of economic function by any one party or small number of parties  
5. It cannot represent a one-sided ‘takings’ from the hyperscalers but must prove economically beneficial to all parties

*Homo Economicus Silico* is our proposed solution that meets these design constraints while also turning the economic conversation about AI and its impacts on its head. Ontologically, we begin from a design philosophy of growth and augmentation vs. the current hyperscaler mantra of human replacement. We seek to show you the possible world that can feasibly exist where AI doesn’t replace humanity, doesn’t immiserate the working people of this country and world and instead provides the path to direct economic and demographic renewal which leads to a true post-scarcity world. We make no claims this is an easy path forward \- it will require a Manhattan Project-level effort nationally to secure our future.

We thank you in advance for your exploration and thinking. We stand at the crossroads of either global plantation economics or a post-scarcity world. We have chosen and encourage you to choose the latter with us.
